1.
Tell me about a time when the ability to communicate effectively was critical to the success of a task or project.
Architectural arguments example

2.
Describe a situation where initiative on the part of you or someone else was critical. 
Same as 1

3.
Describe an example of a time when you had to approach several people for support or cooperation, whom you
considered quite different from one another. 
SCENARIO: new team, one new grad plus an experience hire
Action: for new grad, promote his ideas, ask for alternatives all the time, through code review. More experienced hires, just let it go
freely, only check for code reviews and major architectural design, and leave everything to her discretion.
Praise them in front of the managers, espeically when they are present.
Result: Both quit within a money. They cite the work being uninteresting and they are bored
What I should have done: 
have a talk with them asking for what they want to do. Do they prefer breath or depth. 
Have a monthly touch-base with them


4.
Describe a situation in which your first attempt to sell an idea failed. 
Important thing is the follow up, do you try again or just give up.
Architecture change argument

5.
Tell me about one of the toughest groups you have had to get cooperation from. Did you have formal authority?
Same as 3.

7.Tell me about a situation you observed or were a part of where there were time and/or resource constraints.
Senario: operate under the gun of the client
Action: 
Externally, try to seqeeze as much performance as out of current produciton so that we can to buy time for us.
Internally, we don't tell any of the frontline workers how serious the issue is, because we are already pushing them 9 hours a day at
coding.

8.
Describe a situation where a prompt and accurate decision on your part was critical. What did you consider in
reaching your decision?
Very hard for me to make snap decisions, because I have to think twice before I can communicate with the supriors. In fact, often I force
myself to keep my mouth shut, go back to my desk, and write out and formulate my ideas first, before I cam present it to the lead.

9.
Describe two examples of good decisions you have made in the last six months. 
Scenario: 
huge turnover at my last job
Action: 
move on from my last job, and go to US for bigger pond
Alternative: 
Can interview for more alternatives, but I get much less interview in Toronto, as compared to in NYC
Stay on the current job is not a good idea either - Our CTO left only 1 month after me.

10.
Tell me about a team where you were the leader. How did you promote the effectiveness of your team? What
were the results?
Almost same as 3, although need to stress what to work on
