1.
visualize the problem as a whole via statements, so that you can recollect on
relevent points. Moreover, you can lose sight of it for a while w/o losing it
altogether

2.
Play around with the principal parts, so that to discover details that will
play a role afterwards

3.
hunting for helpful idea: seek contacts with your formerly acquired knowledge.
If the idea looks reliable, you should check how far it can lead you => even
if you do not have any appreciable new ideas, you should be grateful if your
conecption of the problem beocmes more complet or coherent

4.
start from the lucky idea, and you are confident you can supply the minor
details that may be wanting. Make sure grasp secure

------------

Check the argument => greatly strength our trust int he solution
test by dimension
variation of the data (variabtion of the problem 4)
check the argument: avoid mere repetition => strain on attention,
uninstructive => need to introduce variations
pick out weakest point of the argument and examine it first => Did you use all the data?

--
Can you derive the result differently?

------
Can you use the result, or the method, for some other problems? => good
problems and mushrorom of ceratin kinds have soemthign in common: grow in
cluster!
One common pattern is original unknown as given and one of the original data
as unknown
genearlization
speicalization
analogy
considering certain original elements as variable

experience is incomplete if student nver had an oppurtinuty to solve a problem
invented by himself

---------
Devising the plan of the solution, we should not be afraid of merely
plausible, heuristic reasoning, but be strict when carrying out arguments
not reasonalble to check minor details before we have good reasons to belive
that the major steps are sound <=> order of execution  may be very different
from the order of invention

---
Can you derive somthing useful from the data,i.e., from data to unknown?
from the unknown: think of a familiar problme having the same or a similar
unknown

---
Decomposing and combining
Understand the problem as a whole, we will be in a better position to judge
which particular points may be the msot essential

It is advisable to start the detailed examination of the prob,lem withe the
quesiton: unknown? data? condition?
=> may need to go back to definition, to introduce new elements involved by
the definition

May recombine the elements of the problme into some new, more accessible
problem which we could use as an auxiliary problem, simipler techniques:

keep the unknown and change the rest,e.g., recollect a solved, similar, but
not exactly same problem. One technique is to keep part of the condiition,
drop the other part
keep the data and change the rest
change both the unknown and the data
