103:
In this problem you will analyze a property of a group of n-dimensional boxes. You are to determine the longest nesting string of boxes

----
104:
write a program that determines whether a sequence of currency exchanges can yield a profit
 If there is more than one sequence that results in a profit of more than 1 percent you must print a sequence of minimal length, i.e., one of the sequences that uses the fewest exchanges of currencies to yield a profit. 

---
108:
Given a 2-dimensional array of positive and negative integers, find the sub-rectangle with the largest sum

--
111:
Given the correct chronological order of n events, and a sequence of student responses denotes the chronological rank given by the student. determine the length of the longest (not necessarily contiguous) sequence of events in the student responses that are in the correct chronological order relative to each other. 

----
116:
matrix of integers, you are to write a program that computes a path of minimal weight. A path starts anywhere in column 1 (the first column) and consists of a sequence of steps terminating in column n (the last column). A step consists of traveling from column i to column i+1 in an adjacent (horizontal or diagonal) row. The first and last rows (rows 1 and m) of a matrix are considered adjacent, i.e., the matrix ``wraps'' so that it represents a horizontal cylinder

-----
120:
 Given a stack of pancakes, you are to write a program that indicates how the stack can be sorted so that the largest pancake is on the bottom and the smallest pancake is on the top. The size of a pancake is given by the pancake's diameter. All pancakes in a stack have different diameters.

Sorting a stack is done by a sequence of pancake ``flips''. A flip consists of inserting a spatula between two pancakes in a stack and flipping (reversing) the pancakes on the spatula (reversing the sub-stack). A flip is specified by giving the position of the pancake on the bottom of the sub-stack to be flipped (relative to the whole stack). The pancake on the bottom of the whole stack has position 1 and the pancake on the top of a stack of n pancakes has position n.

A stack is specified by giving the diameter of each pancake in the stack in the order in which the pancakes appear. 

-----
124:
Given a list of variable constraints of the form x < y, you are to write a program that prints all orderings of the variables that are consistent with the constraints. 

-----
125:
Given the intersections connected by one-way streets in a city, you are to write a program that determines the number of different routes between each intersection. A route is a sequence of one-way streets connecting two intersections. 
It is possible for an infinite number of different routes to exist

----
138:
 A computer programmer lives in a street with houses numbered consecutively (from 1) down one side of the street. Every evening she walks her dog by leaving her house and randomly turning left or right and walking to the end of the street and back. One night she adds up the street numbers of the houses she passes (excluding her own). The next time she walks the other way she repeats this and finds, to her astonishment, that the two sums are the same. Although this is determined in part by her house number and in part by the number of houses in the street, she nevertheless feels that this is a desirable property for her house to have and decides that all her subsequent houses should exhibit it.

Write a program to find pairs of numbers that satisfy this condition.
------
146:
Your program will accept a sequence of no more than 50 lower case letters (which may contain repeated characters) and print the successor code if one exists or the message `No Successor' if the given code is the last in the sequence for that set of characters. 

------
151:
 The country was divided up into N regions (Auckland was region number 1, and Wellington number 13). A number, m, would be picked `at random', and the power would first be turned off in region 1 (clearly the fairest starting point) and then in every m'th region after that, wrapping around to 1 after N, and ignoring regions already turned off. For example, if N = 17 and m = 5, power would be turned off to the regions in the order:1,6,11,16,5,12,2,9,17,10,4,15,14,3,8,13,7.

The problem is that it is clearly fairest to turn off Wellington last (after all, that is where the Electricity headquarters are), so for a given N, the `random' number m needs to be carefully chosen so that region 13 is the last region selected. 
--------
164:
Edit distance
Write a program that will read in two strings (the input string and the target string) and will produce a minimal X9091 program necessary to transform the input string into the target string. Since there may be multiple solutions, only one should be produced.

---
200:
 In particular, your program will take a set of strings that has been sorted according to a particular collating sequence and determine what that sequence is. 

-----
202:
For each line of input, print the fraction, its decimal expansion through the first occurrence of the cycle to the right of the decimal or 50 decimal places (whichever comes first), and the length of the entire repeating cycle. 

-----
256:
find all 4 digits number x, y such that (x + y)^2 = [digits of x] concat [digits of y], including the leading 0s

------
257:
A palinword is a string of characters that contains at least 2 different palindromes each with a length of at least 3. 
Neither of these 2 palindromes may be embedded in the other palindrome. but they may partially overlap. 
----

260:
Diamond-shaped board: see if row or col connects to the other end 

-----
299:
how many swaps it needs to sort an array?


