514
given the array [1...n], can we generate the target array [a1...an] by reversing a subarray of target array. the catch is, if you reverse sub array i..j, then the next subarry to reverse should happen after j

-----
531

Two politicians each enter their proposal of what to do. The computer then outputs the longest common subsequence of words that occurs in both proposals.

------
536:
To record her trees for future generations, she wrote down two strings for each tree: a preorder traversal (root, left subtree, right subtree) and an inorder traversal (left subtree, root, right subtree).

For the tree drawn above the preorder traversal is DBACEGF and the inorder traversal is ABCDEFG.

She thought that such a pair of strings would give enough information to reconstruct the tree later (but she never tried it).

 recover Valentine's binary tree and print one line containing the tree's postorder traversal (left subtree, right subtree, root).

----
539:
 You are given a set of nodes (cities) and a set of edges (road segments) of length 1 connecting the nodes. The longest road is defined as the longest path within the network that doesn't use an edge twice. Nodes may be visited more than once, though.
n <= 25, m <= 25

----
544;
Given start and destination city, your job is to determine the maximum load of the Godzilla V12 so that there still exists a path between the two specified cities.

---
545:
Print r lines each with the value of 2-n for the given values of n, using the format:

2^-n = x.xxxE-y

where each x is a decimal digit and each y is a decimal integer with no leading zeroes or spaces.

----
558:
Finding the negative cycle of the graph

---
562:
Given a bag with a maximum of 100 coins, determine the most fair division between two persons. This means that the difference between the amount each person obtains should be minimised. The value of a coin varies from 1 cent to 500 cents. It's not allowed to split a single coin.

---
567:
 your task is to write a function that takes a starting country and a destination country and computes the minimum number of countries that must be conquered to reach the destination. You do not need to output the sequence of countries, just the number of countries to be conquered including the destination. For example, if starting and destination countries are neighbors, then your program should return one.
---
571

There are three types of actions that you can use: (1) you can fill a jug, (2) you can empty a jug, and (3) you can pour from one jug to the other. Pouring from one jug to the other stops when the first jug is empty or the second jug is full, whichever comes first
A problem is given by a triple (Ca,Cb,N), where Ca and Cb are the capacities of the jugs A and B, respectively, and N is the goal. A solution is a sequence of steps that leaves exactly N gallons in jug B. The possible steps are
 A and B are relatively prime to one another.

-------
574

 a specified total t and a list of n integers, find all distinct sums using numbers from the list that add up to t, t < 1000, n <=12
------
575
In skew binary, the k-th digit represents a multiple of 2k+1 - 1. The only possible digits are 0 and 1, except that the least-significant nonzero digit can be a 2. For example, 
For each number, output the decimal equivalent
-----
580
He posed the question: consider a worker stacking the radioactive cubes and non radioactive cubes at random on top of each other to a height of n cubes; how many possible combinations are there for a disaster to happen?

-----
594
For each input integer a single line should be printed to the output file. The line should contain the input integer followed by the phrase ``converts to" followed by one space followed the other-endian value.

---
612

pair of numbers that are out of order with respect to each other

---
617

Fast Phil works the late shift and leaves his company's parking lot at precisely 2:00 AM every morning. His route home is by a straight road which has one or more traffic signals. Phil has always wondered if, given the locations and cycles of each of the traffic signals, are there velocities he can travel home without ever having to speed up or slow down on account of a red light. You are to write a program to satisfy his curiosity.

----
624:

You have a long drive by car ahead. You have a tape recorder, but unfortunately your best music is on CDs. You need to have it on tapes so the problem to solve is: you have a tape N minutes long. How to choose tracks from CD to get most out of tape space and have as short unused space as possible.

number of tracks on the CD. does not exceed 20
no track is longer than N minutes
tracks do not repeat
length of each track is expressed as an integer number
N is also integer

-----
636:
For each number you should find a smallest base of a numerical system in which this number is a square of some other number. Each number should be outputted in separate line.
base less than 100

----
639:
 A configuration of rooks is legal provided that no two rooks are on the same horizontal row or vertical column unless there is at least one wall separating them.

 given a description of a board, calculates the maximum number of rooks that can be placed on the board in a legal configuration. n <= 4

---
673:
You are given a string consisting of parentheses () and []. A string of this type is said to be correct:

(a)
if it is the empty string
(b)
if A and B are correct, AB is correct,
(c)
if A is correct, (A) and [A] is correct.
Write a program that takes a sequence of strings of this type and check their correctness. Your program can assume that the maximum string length is 128.

