Publisher-Subscriber

Event: Intent
Subscriber:BroadcastReceiver
Filter inside Subscriber: IntentFilter
Publisher: Activity, Service, etc...
Event Channel: Context & ActivityManagerService

Dymanics
1. Subscriber registers with Event Channel
implementation-wise, we need to send subscriber or channel info to the publisher,i.e., as a parameter. The channel or publisher can generate a sub token upon success sub. Later on, subscriber can use this token to unsub, instead of talking to channel directly

2. Publisher produces Event and push it to the event channel
3. event channel pushs the event to the subscriber
4. Subscriber consumes event
5. later, Subscriber sends detachSub message to the Event channel

Note that is pattern is push-based so that subscribers can update immediately after state change in publishers

--------

Comparison with Observer

1. Subject is similar to Publisher, and Observer is similar to the Subscriber
2. Observer pattern doesnt have the intermediate event channel, and therefore, doesnt have to event as medium. Event is replaced by a directly method call
3. This addtional EventChannel/Event abstraction also means that Subscriber could be in another process, since this Event abstraction is similar to the command pattern
4. Overall, Pub-Sub focuses on the architecture of software, while Observer pattern's focus is much smaller
5. Similar to all event-related patterns, subscriber/observer needs to detach themselves carefully, 
because it may accidentally have reference to resources that will not be released automatically/quickly.
This is a common source of memory problem/memory leak. e.g., observer waiting for static resources to notify, Subscriber forgets to detach itself from event channel
6. With event handling moving to reactive programming paradigm, observer is losing use cases. However, pub/sub model remains popular way to decouple executions

---------
Comparison with Reactor
1. Reactor is more low-level oriented, due to its background from network messaging
2. Reactor pays more attention to how service inside event handler communicates with client, in network environment, this means client and service , after service got dispatched by the event hanlder, will talk via the open handle.
3. The dispatcher in reactor is single threaded. No such requirement for publisher/subscriber

------
Comparison wiht Proactor
