
u can use a Message Expiration (218) and perhaps the Dead Letter Channel (172) to signal to the system that something needs to be done about
the latency situation, if in fact it is deemed unacceptable.

Send a Document Message on a Point-to-Point Channel (151) to one actor at a time, each implementing a step in the process. As each step
completes, it appends to the document that it received, applying the changes for the processing step as it is completed. The actor for the
current step then dispatches the appended Document Message on to the actor of the next processing step. This
dispatch-receive-append-dispatch recurrence continues until the process has completed

As an alternative to this document-based lookup approach, you may instead choose to use the Akka DistributedPubSubMediator, as discussed in
Publish-Subscribe Channel (154), to dispatch to a single actor in the cluster without the need to actually look up the actor.

 It would be nice if the server could create a child worker to handle a specific kind of complex message but design the worker to reply to
the original client sender, not to the parent server. That would free the parent server to simply delegate to the child worker and allow the
worker to react as if the server had done the work itself.

etting the identifier as the request ID on the request message but to be named correlation ID on the reply message.

format indicator: version number

New Extended Message Type: This approach actually doesn’t modify the older message format at all but instead creates a new message that is a
superset of the previous message format. Thus, all subsystems that depend only on the original/current version of a message will continue to
work, while all subsystems that require the new message can recognize it by its new and distinct type. The new message type name may be
closely associated with the one that it extends

version # example: 2 case calsses with same name and version number, newer one can construct older one

support both versions of the message by providing a reasonable default for all version 1 clients.=> use the version number to branch logic
in receiver
